.TH CHIP8 1 "January 2026" "libc8" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chip8 \- CHIP-8 interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chip8
[-dvV] [-c clockspeed] [-f small,big] [-p file] [-P colors] [-q quirks] file
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a CHIP-8 and SCHIP interpreter with an integrated debug mode, utilizing
libc8 with SDL2.
.SH USAGE
.TP
.B -c clockspeed
Set the number of instructions to be executed per second (default: 1000).
.TP
.B -d
Enable debug mode. This can be used to add breakpoints, display the current memory, and step through
instructions individually.
.TP
.B -f small,big
Load the specified comma separated fonts. Big font is optional.
.TP
.B -p file
Load a color palette from a file containing two newline-separated 24-bit hex codes.
.TP
.B -P colors
Load a color palette from a string containing two comma-separated 24-bit hex codes.
.TP
.B -q quirks
Sets the quirks to enable from a string with non-separated quirk identifiers.
.TP
.B -v
Enable verbose mode. This will print each instruction that is executed.
.TP
.B -V
Print the version number and exit.
.SH KEYBOARD LAYOUT
The keyboard layout is as follows:
.RS
.nf
  Key       CHIP-8 keycode
1 2 3 4        1 2 3 C
q w e r  ==>   4 5 6 D
a s d f        7 8 9 E
z x c v        A 0 B F
.fi
.RE
.SH FONTS
Small fonts:
.IP \(bu 2
.B octo
.IP \(bu 2
.B vip
.IP \(bu 2
.B dream6800
.IP \(bu 2
.B eti660
.IP \(bu 2
.B fish
.TP
Big fonts:
.IP \(bu 2
.B octo
.IP \(bu 2
.B schip
.IP \(bu 2
.B fish
.SH QUIRKS
The following quirks are available:
.TP
.B b
After \fBAND\fP, \fBOR\fP, and \fBXOR\fP: Clear \fBVF\fP.
.TP
.B d
For \fBDRW\fP: Clip sprites at edge of display.
.TP
.B j
For \fBJP V0, nnn\fP: Jump to \fBnnn + V[(nnn>>8)&0xF\fP instead.
.TP
.B l
After \fBLD [I], Vx\fP and \fBLD Vx, [I]\fP: Set \fBI\fP to \fBI+x+1\fP.
.TP
.B s
Before \fBSHL Vx, Vy\fP and \fBSHR Vx, Vy\fP: Shift \fBVx\fP in place, ignore \fBVy\fP.
.SH DEBUG MODE COMMANDS
Debug mode can be enabled via the \fB-d\fP flag or by pressing P at any time during execution. It can also be
disabled at any time by pressing M. The following commands are supported in debug mode:
.TP
.B break [ADDRESS]
Set a breakpoint to \fBPC\fP, or \fBADDRESS\fP, if given
.TP
.B rmbreak [ADDRESS]
Remove breakpoint to \fBPC\fP, or \fBADDRESS\fP, if given and exists.
.TP
.B continue
Exit debug mode until next breakpoint or until execution is complete.
.TP
.B help
Print a help string.
.TP
.B load PATH
Load program state from \fBPATH\fP.
.TP
.B loadflags PATH
Load flag registers from \fBPATH\fP.
.TP
.B next
Step to the next instruction.
.TP
.B print [ATTRIBUTE]
Print current value of the given attribute, or all attributes (excluding memory
and stack values) if no argument is provided.
.TP
.B quit
Terminate the program.
.TP
.B save PATH
Save program state to \fBPATH\fP.
.TP
.B saveflags PATH
Save flag registers to \fBPATH\fP.
.TP
.B set ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Set the given attribute to the given value.
.SH DEBUG MODE ATTRIBUTES
.TP
.B PC
Program counter.
.TP
.B SP
Stack pointer.
.TP
.B DT
Delay timer.
.TP
.B ST
Sound timer.
.TP
.B I
I register value.
.TP
.B K
Register to store next keypress.
.TP
.B V[x]
All \fBV\fP registers or value of \fBVx\fP, if given.
.TP
.B R[X]
All \fBR\fP (flag) registers or value of \fBRX\fP, if given.
.TP
.B bfont
Big font name.
.TP
.B sfont
Small font name.
.TP
.B stack
Stack contents.
.TP
.B bg
Background color.
.TP
.B fg
Foreground color.
.TP
.B \fB$[address]\fP
Memory contents at the given address.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Ben O'Neill <ben@oneill.sh>.
.SH BUGS
If any bugs are found, email the author.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2019-2026 Ben O'Neill <ben@oneill.sh>. License: MIT.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chip8as (1),
.BR chip8dis (1)
